= Munin-Rails-Plugins
Collection of Concise Munin plugins for Rails server environments.
This will make monitoring your rails app a piece of cake.
 
This project contains munin plugins that not only work in munin, but are also concise (see references).
Most things in this repository rely heavily on the request-log-analyzer gem.

The project has now been converted into a gem. 
If you are looking for the loose scripts, please checkout https://github.com/barttenbrinke/munin-plugins-rails/tree/stable 
 
== What's in the box?
* passenger_memory_stats - Munin plugin to monitor the memory usage of passenger application servers.
* pasenger_queue - Montoring of passenger queue lenth.
* passenger_status - Running, active and maximum number of passenger instances as well as sessions.
* rails_database_time - Min, avg, max of database times.
* rails_request_duration - Min, avg, max of the total request durations.
* rails_request_error - Application errors and process blocker counters.
* rails_requests - Get, put, post and delete requests.
* rails_view_render_time - Min, avg and max view render times.
 
For screenshots, head over to: http://barttenbrinke.github.com/munin-plugins-rails/
 
== Installation
Installing should be as easy as

gem install munin-rails-plugins

After that you have two options:

You can add the passenger plugins that will monitor the server as a whole. These include:
* passenger_memory_stats - Munin plugin to monitor the memory usage of passenger application servers.
* pasenger_queue - Montoring of passenger queue lenth.
* passenger_status - Running, active and maximum number of passenger instances as well as sessions.
* rails_database_time - Min, avg, max of database times.
* rails_request_duration - Min, avg, max of the total request durations.
* rails_request_error - Application errors and process blocker counters.
* rails_requests - Get, put, post and delete requests.
* rails_view_render_time - Min, avg and max view render times.

To do this run:

sudo request-log-analyzer-munin install 

This will create the necessary symlinks in /etc/munin/plugins and create reasonable configurations in /etc/munin/plugin-conf.d:

* munin_passenger_memory_stats
* munin_passenger_queue
* munin_passenger_status

You can customize these as needed.

You can add a specific application's log file so that you can use the following:
* rails_database_time
* rails_request_duration
* rails_request_error
* rails_requests
* rails_view_render_time

To do this run

sudo request-log-analyzer-munin add app_name path_to_log_file

app_name: this will be the prefix for the graphs and the munin plugins so it should be a valid identifier (/[A-Za-z0-9_]*/).
path_to_log_file: this is the path to the log file against which request-log-analyzer will run

After running this command you'll have appropriate symlinks in /etc/munin/plugins and a set of configuration files in /etc/munin/plugin-conf.d:

* app_name_munin_rails_database_time
* app_name_munin_rails_request_duration
* app_name_munin_rails_request_error
* app_name_munin_rails_requests
* app_name_munin_rails_view_render_time

For more detailed information, see the documentation embedded in the plugins. 

Remember to restart munin-node. 
 
== Problems
* sudo gem install request-log-analyzer
* Check if the paths in the plugin configuration are correct.
* Make sure the specified user is allowed to write to /tmp and access your rails logfile.
 
If you encounter performance problems with your app, please take a look at the request-log-analyzer wiki on
examples on how to drill down to the core of your problem. If you want to hire an expert, please visit us at
http://railsdoctors.com or mail me at: bart@railsdoctors.com
 
Happy monitoring!
 
== Additional information
* Railsdoctors:         http://railsdoctors.com
* Request-log-analzer:  http://github.com/wvanbergen/request-log-analyzer/
* Screenshots           http://barttenbrinke.github.com/munin-plugins-rails/
* Munin:                http://munin.projects.linpro.no/wiki/ConcisePlugins
* License:              MIT